Last season on Bosch...
He's been a different person
since he solved
his mom's murder.
Her killer got away with it.
Edward Gunn
got away with two, at least.
Harry's a lot
of things, but he is not
-a coldblooded...
-I agree with you, I agree.
But he is lying
about his prints.
You're investigating me for
Gunn's murder
No. I think you're being set up.
-You think?
-I know you're being set up.
When were you planning
to tell me this, partner?
Detective, weren't you
a defendant in a civil suit
where you were accused
of planting evidence?
-Yes. -What was the outcome
of that lawsuit?
Jury found for the plaintiff.
-Nothing further.
-Honey Chandler
has painted an indelible
portrait of you, Detective,
that you can't be trusted,
that you'll do anything
and say anything,
-cut any corner to win. -This
is bullshit. I don't do that.
You have that reputation,
Detective, deserved or not.
You don't know, youngblood.
You don't know.
Never assume.
Why would Bosch do that?
He takes two assholes
off the board with one move.
He's hiding something.
I can smell it.
The Koreatown Killer, aka KTK,
first became active
four years ago.
Four carjackings,
three shootings, two murders.
The latest carjacking victim
helped us develop a new sketch.
So, when do you hear
about the captain's exam?
I heard.
Next to last band.
Shit. Sorry.
The truth is, I think
I wanted to make captain
more than I wanted
to actually be one.
I'm happy where I am.
With you assholes.
You look tired, J.
The Bosch still
wearing you down?
You look great.
I know you got your eyes on RHD.
Yeah.
But... the politics involved...
you know better than anyone.
Still, this looks good
for you, Santiago.
What are you trying
to tell me, Terry?
Don't unravel the sweater.
No intention.
Fuckin' IA. Harry...
- -
Tell me
you're gonna quit, Jerry.
Take your pension,
call it a day.
Now, what else would I do?
Watch your boys grow up.
I will. Don't worry.
Lord, I missed you.
-And you're taller.
-Do not go down that road.
Where are
you and Reggie staying?
Somewhere swanky
with a pool, I hope?
Reggie's in Shanghai.
I actually hoped
I could stay here.
Look, Jay,
I got you what you wanted.
We're greedy bastards,
what can I say?
You can say, "Welcome back
to the Bureau, Agent Wish,"
give me a desk and a badge.
You sent that video
to the Times.
Holland's a monster.
So was Gunn.
The Taferos.
We took them all
off the chart, Jerry.
They'll never hurt
anybody again.
Man, two weeks ago, you
didn't want to be my partner.
Now I'm-I'm not so sure
I can be yours.
What's burning?
River Watch
Retirement Community.
I used to visit a guy there.
Retired detective,
John Caffrey.
Why would Caffrey send
you his high school yearbook?
I should have fucking known.
Arno Epperson, AKA Fox Mitchell.
The man
who murdered your mother.
Or so I thought.
Bradley Walker.
He and Arno were tight.
The Police Commission president?
His father more or less ran the
city council for three decades.
So Walker killed your mother
now?
That's your theory?
Do you have any idea
how you sound?
RHD says Caffrey was the target
of the arson at River Watch.
Somebody wanted to wipe him out
and whatever he had
in that apartment.
You want me to help you conduct
a secret investigation
of the man who's scheduled
to pin the stars on my collar.
Don't you want to know
if that man's a murderer?
Put yourself
in these detectives' shoes.
An eight-year-old girl
is missing.
You think you have the man
who took her.
This man,
the plaintiff,
Michael Harris.
But he won't say where she is.
He won't even admit
that he took her.
So what do you do?
Now, mind you,
you're not just any detective.
You're LAPD.
Robbery-Homicide Division.
Cream of the crop. Legendary.
It was cops like you
who solved Manson,
Night Stalker, Grim Sleeper.
Maybe this little girl's
already dead.
But maybe she's not.
And if you can get Harris
to tell you
where he's got her stashed,
maybe you can save her life.
So what do you do?
You torture him?
You wrap a plastic bag
around his head,
choke off his air,
try to get him to talk?
You gonna stick a sharpened,
number two,
Black Guardian pencil
into his ear,
puncture his eardrum?
Keep on going into his skull,
causing permanent deafness?
No.
No, you don't.
Not in a civil society.
We don't have to settle.
-I can win this. -The win,
for the city of Los Angeles,
is making Black Guardian
go away.
Move to the dark side,
you lose track of time.
-The man doesn't have a case.
-Doesn't have to.
Just the trial. The great man
handing out sound bites
on the courthouse steps
every day--
-that sets us back 30 years.
-
No, no, no.
Mr. Kaplan, I told Howard,
he wants this check,
-I need him...
-He's not settling.
-We had an agreement.
$420,000... -For any price.
He's taking this case to trial.
I will prove
I will pro...
The evidence will show
that these LAPD
Robbery-Homicide detectives,
under the color of law,
men who have sworn an oath
to protect and serve
the citizens of Los Angeles,
tortured an innocent man.
In a civil society,
racism has no part of justice.
torture has no part of justice.
In a civil society...
Shit, this thing needs to sing.
It will by Monday. But you don't
want to offend our jurors.
Oh, yeah, I do want offended.
I want them deeply offended,
-outraged.
-By the crime, not the lawyer.
Don't use the word "Christ."
How'd they take it?
Missy shit two bricks.
Okay. I'll need a nice,
warm bath to un-see that.
What about Irving?
-Not happy.
-Yeah, I'll bet.
This trial's gonna feed
his whole department
into the wood chipper.
The whole point
of sushi is that it's fresh.
And that's not why I'm calling.
Sugarfish.
It's your favorite.
Not even two hours old.
Mom's taking me
to the tournament tomorrow.
Okay. Still want me to go?
As long as you don't yell.
-Can't make any promises.
-It's fine.
-I'll just pretend you're
somebody else's dad. -Right.
I still can't get ahold
of Reggie.
His Skype's all screwed up.
Or mine is.
Dad?
-Right here.
-Something's going on
-with them. Mom and Reggie.
-Are you asking
or telling me?
You're busy.
I am.
-Good talk, Dad.
Don't stay out too late.
Love you.
Hi.
Ah, here.
-Phil Gentry. Thanks.
-
Excuse me.
Hello?
Uh...
-just...
-Thanks.
Hold on.
Hello?
What was his counter?
He'll call Sunday night, Irv.
He's trying
to make the city sweat.
It's working.
He thinks he can win this.
No.
It's a play.
He thinks he can jack up
the settlement.
Let's meet tomorrow
and decide how best to proceed.
It's not the end of the world.
Harry Bosch.
Just the man I need.
Phil Gentry.
A thousand bucks a ticket,
and they let some joker
say he's me.
I'm sorry to hear that.
I was just thinking
maybe you could find him.
You know...
solve the case.
-It's a joke.
-That's a good one.
Harry Bosch.
I'm glad I ran into you.
Barkeep?
Second chair
usually has a chair.
In court, is what I'm saying.
Ah, well, in my experience,
second chair
is something that you earn.
-I said bold the changes.
-Oh, I did.
Well, bold and underline.
-I got to see them.
-Yes, sir.
Coming right up.
-You know what your problem is,
Kaplan
You want to walk
before you can crawl.
At your age, I was running
a free legal clinic
for grape pickers in Salinas.
You-you want to whine
about chairs.
- -Says the man
who just turned down
mid-six figures
to play Powerball with a jury.
Well, that is not
what is going on here.
Any word
on the tech request I put in
-for court on Friday?
-Not yet.
I could follow up.
You know that there were
a thousand
police killings
in America last year?
Do you have any idea
how many cops
were convicted of murder
or manslaughter?
-Not one.
-None. Zip. Zero.
Cities don't even bother
to keep use-of-force statistics.
What does that tell you?
That tells me
that you're considering
putting that in your opening.
Look, I'd save it.
Just stick with Harris.
No, forget it.
-I'll just go with this.
-Are you sure?
Look, I just have to print it.
Yeah. Just keep your phone on
this weekend,
there, Kaplan. Just in case.
In case of what?
- -
That sprinkler needs help.
Patrol car ran over it.
You okay?
Yeah.
I'll be right in.
Please answer this time.
Open for 500.
I can count, honey.
Raise.
The raise is 2,200.
Sorry.
Call.
Two players.
No checks accepted.
I got a big hand here.
I'm all in.
5,950.
Call.
Oh, goddamn it.
Nice flop.
Bitch fucked me again.
You fucked yourself.
You overplayed a weak ace.
What did you just say?
You heard me.
Now back off.
Cards?
Yes.
Come on. Come on.
Come on. Come on, give me one.
Give me one. Give me one.
Son of a bitch.
Nice playing with you.
Borrow a hundred grand,
don't pay,
bank swoops your fucking house.
Borrow 50 mil and don't pay,
my bank buys a table
at your foundation's fundraiser,
and yours truly
has to fucking go.
Too big to fail.
Thousand bucks a ticket
to help the homeless?
No irony there.
Brad Walker doesn't give a shit
about low-cost housing.
It's all politics, Harry.
Leveraging the city
for a variance
to build his luxury condo tower.
Councilman Steven Clark.
Purveyor of said variance.
So, how's Becca doing
with the college thing?
Ah, she wants Columbia.
She doesn't have a shot. Maddie?
Still waiting on Chapman.
Mariachis. Fuck.
I'm out of here.
Thanks for the drink, Phil.
Detective Harry Bosch.
I had no idea you were a
supporter of affordable housing.
Anything helps the little guy.
I like hearing that.
I was actually hoping
to talk to Councilman Clark.
Stevie?
What about?
Cold case I'm chasing.
Justice never sleeps.
I'll introduce you. We've known
each other since high school.
I've got to take this.
Reception's lousy in here.
Bosch.
Bosch, where are you?
-Downtown.
-
We've got a 187
at Angel's Flight.
How quickly can you get here?
I'm on my way.
Thank you.
Eleanor.
I know it's late notice, and the
buy-in's kinda steep, but...
-Home game?
-50 grand, cash. Tomorrow night.
It's the Chinese guys.
The wild Chinese guys.
The high roller
sports book guys?
They asked me to put
a game together.
Wild losers.
Who wants to play with them?
Look at this.
Got enough RHD guys out here
to solve an actual case.
Is that you, Drake?
Bosch.
Field trip from the
old folks' home?
Howard Elias is in there.
Deader than a motherfucker.
Why are you guys hanging back?
-Conflict of interest.
-Chief pulled us off.
He's gonna start
a Special Task Force.
It's lose-lose for you, Harry.
Either piss off the department
or the whole fucking city.
-Yeah.
-You catch who did it,
bring him down to our crib.
We'll give him a goddamn medal.
Two times at 4640 Paradise.
Code four.
Only thing we can be sure of
in life... is death.
RHD's not shedding any tears.
The man ruined a lot of careers.
I've talked to
Lieutenant Billets,
cut you free of the
Hollywood rotation
-until we get this handled.
-We?
You, Robertson and Pierce.
Plus Snyder and Lincoln
from Internal Affairs.
Who's running the show?
You.
We all know
-what a team player you are.
-Yeah, the thing is, Chief,
Sergeant Snyder and I,
we have a history.
You have a history
with the world, Detective.
But not with Howard Elias.
Now, it is essential
we clear this case quickly.
You and Robertson
are our two best
homicide detectives not in RHD.
And Snyder and Lincoln did the
Black Guardian investigation.
Their knowledge of that case,
and others, should be useful.
Three-piece suit.
You know me better than that.
Optics are part of your job.
Right now, the only color
I'm concerned with is blue.
Tram operator?
ID says Lanny Johnson.
Neck wound, through and through.
-Killed first.
-After Elias boarded.
-Assuming Elias is the primary.
-The public will.
He turned down a settlement
on Black Guardian today.
Trial was gonna start
Monday morning.
If this goes where
the public thinks it goes?
That's my concern.
You just follow the evidence.
Let the chips fall
where they may.
Detective Bosch.
Sergeant, take your partner,
shadow the crims.
See if you can find that
through-and-through slug
that killed Mr. Johnson.
Nice to meet you, too.
Not much foot traffic up here
that late.
A jogger saw the broken
control booth window.
Operator's body inside.
-When did the call come in?
-2346.
Tram shuts down at 2200.
Didn't take long to ID the man.
There's a dartboard with his
face on it in our war room.
So the bodies pretty much
the way you found them?
We'd barely got started
when Chief gave us the hook.
Surveillance cameras?
Two on the wheelhouse
are easily avoided.
Good coverage
in the water court,
spotty on the access points.
His office is in
the Bradbury building.
He lives in Baldwin Hills.
Why would Howard Elias
be on Angel's Flight?
My guys think it was a robbery.
Yeah. That'd be convenient
for everyone, wouldn't it?
Watch and wallet missing.
Rooker did a pass through
the tram.
Your people gonna give me
trouble, Captain?
It wasn't one of my guys, Bosch.
You'd be wasting your time
you look there too long.
Man's gotta sit to think.
Sir.
Came all the way from Montrose
to make sure he's dead?
Well, that son of a bitch
wrote me up twice.
Ain't nothing personal, Terry.
Mr. Sues and Settles.
Yeah, well, I'll cry
on the way home.
Who's that?
Second best partner I ever had.
Where the hell have you been?
Home, mostly.
It's a hell of a thing, huh?
Oh, for fuck's sake, Frankie.
Here. Take these.
Chew 'em.
Hey, big dog.
Cool to come in?
Just wrapping up, Harry.
-This one yours now?
-Yeah.
What a special treat.
Hey, Pierce, get in here.
Glove up, check that briefcase.
Don't we need a warrant?
We don't know whose it is.
Okay, Potts.
Give me some good news.
It's pretty clean.
Bullet in the chest went through
and impacted
on that metal frame up there.
Looks like a nine,
but it's no good for ballistics.
Nine's a pretty common cop gun.
Casings?
No sign of them.
Yeah, a cop would have
picked them up.
Bullet up the ass
should be good
for a match,
if you find the weapon.
Front pocket.
Car keys, money clip. Wallet was
lifted from the back left.
Watch pulled off from
the left wrist, extended.
-Phone?
-No sign of one.
Thanks, amigo.
Is that a defensive wound?
I'm not buying RHD's
robbery theory. You?
Lead enema says no.
No, it's not.
Latch got sprung
when it hit the wall.
Okay, so watch and wallet
get grabbed in a rush,
but missed the money clip.
What are the odds?
Somebody wants it to look
like a robbery.
Yeah. Not for nothing.
What do you make of your
old partner's cameo?
Not as much as you, I guess.
All right, so the tram arrives,
Elias would have seen
his killer waiting.
Unless they rode up together.
No, the tram operator
was killed first,
after he the initiated the ride.
So Elias doesn't hear it
or see it?
Yeah, the ride's loud.
No. Shooter was waiting,
like you said.
Elias rises up,
steps forward to disembark.
He's not aware of a threat.
He sees the gun,
his hand comes up.
Right. Well, the shot goes
through him as he turns,
momentum knocks him down,
he catches himself,
hands and knees.
Shot up the pipe
was the last one.
Yeah, the shooter
was pissed off.
A "fuck you" shot.
Oh, yeah. They knew each other.
There are case files in here.
Briefs.
Notes, depos...
We're going to need
a daylight grid search
to even hope to find that slug.
-Is that Elias's?
-It was open.
You need a warrant for that.
Attorney-client stuff.
We need a warrant,
she's right.
Book it.
Give us something else, Bosch,
or send us home.
See if you can find his car.
Solve it?
Look, Captain, I'm not saying
one of your guys did it,
but you know I'm gonna find out
if they did.
-Did what?
-Tampered with the crime scene.
Tried to make it look
like a robbery.
Put up a smokescreen in case
it was a cop who did it.
Never happened.
Good.
You an IA asshole now?
I hate to even bring it up,
'cause you can imagine
how that would play
if I had to report that
to Chief Irving, or God forbid,
the press got ahold of it,
because it was,
you know, leaked?
Fuck off.
We need to split up IA.
Yeah, but keep 'em close.
I'll take Snyder,
you take Lincoln.
Hey, youngblood, head back
to the house,
get cracking on those warrants.
Bradbury, briefcase,
his car and his phone.
We checked the lots
near the Bradbury.
Maybe he takes the Metro in.
Or I guess me and Gabby could
walk around downtown all night
randomly pushing key fobs.
Might catch a break
and trip over that nine slug
-from the second victim.
-
-Yeah, this is Bosch.
-It's Garwood.
- -One
of my guys got an anonymous tip.
Caller said a, uh,
"detective-looking person"
tossed something in a can,
corner of Fourth and Hill.
Detective-looking person?
Caller looked in, saw
your missing watch and wallet,
but didn't touch them.
Wild guess--
it was Rooker who got the tip?
Jesus Christ.
You want to tell me
what's going on with that?
When I think the time's right.
It's under the bed. Hmm.
I heard it slide
off the table when you did
that Cirque de Soleil move.
Excuse me?
30.
-I want to be home
when the boys wake up. -Oh.
Sure. You don't want them
to think
-Mom and Dad like each other
again. -No.
-We like the hell
out of each other. -Hmm.
What it adds up to now--
that's what's undetermined.
Not for me.
You pick a suit for Monday?
Uh, it's gonna be light duty
for a while.
-Desk work.
-Uh-huh.
Seriously.
You still okay
with covering my open house?
Yeah, but, sooner or later...
You're still sleeping, baby.
It's just a dream.
Never done one of these before.
Sir, I'm Detective Bosch.
This is Sergeant Snyder...
We know why you're here.
00 a.m.
Some asshole says,
"Your husband's dead,
and I'm dancing,"
then hangs up.
Well, I'm sorry
we couldn't get here quicker.
Martin
Five, six calls later,
we turned off the phone.
You guys finally did it,
didn't you?
It was one of you motherfuckers,
wasn't it?
Sir, if you have
any information as to who might
have done this, please tell me.
The fuck difference
would it make?
Where?
Bunker Hill, ma'am.
Angel's Flight.
Any idea why he'd be up there?
How?
Someone shot him.
We have an apartment
near The Broad.
Howard always stays there
before a trial.
I wasn't expecting him
last night.
When was the last time
you spoke to him?
Mrs. Elias,
we'd like to come in,
tell you what we know
about what happened,
ask a few more questions
that can maybe steer us
in the direction
to find who did this.
And then we'll be on our way.
-Cops did this.
-Martin.
-Get the fuck out of here!
Sir, what you said
about cops doing this?
-Black Guardian cops.
-Let me tell you something.
Any police officer
who might have had reason
to cause your father harm
is gonna be a suspect.
And if I can prove one did it--
that's a killer, not a cop.
-Chief
Walking out as we speak.
Well, I have a press conference
in ten minutes.
Now, would it be inaccurate
to say first indications
are that robbery was the motive?
You've been talking
to Captain Garwood.
Yes or no?
It wasn't a robbery.
What about the missing watch
and wallet?
Removed and discarded nearby.
You want me to tell you
what the PIO wants to hear?
-That it wasn't a cop?
-I want to know
as soon as you have
something concrete, Detective.
Yes, sir.
What?
Bosch, if you've got a problem
with me...
-I don't have a problem.
-The 128
complaint
I wrote you up on last year--
my finding was it was factual.
Should have been sustained,
and you should have taken days.
-What's your point?
-Got quashed upstairs.
Chief's an enigma.
Just say his watch and wallet
were missing from the scene.
It's factually true.
Let the press draw
their own conclusions.
Whenever I'm with you,
I feel like
I'm in a washing machine
spin cycle.
Rinse and repeat.
Good morning,
ladies and gentlemen.
...both
pronounced dead at the scene
in what looks like,
at first blush,
an armed robbery, according
to LAPD Chief Irvin Irving,
in a press conference
moments ago.
A former prosecutor, Elias
earned a national reputation
as a civil rights lawyer,
winning record settlements
-for alleged victims
of police brutality. -
Someone needs
to police the police.
Someone needs to be willing
to unravel the fabric
of institutional racism
- -that continues to allow
atrocities like Black Guardian
to be perpetrated
on young men of color
in this city.
Ironically,
Elias was due
to begin opening arguments
Monday morning
in the closely-watched case
- -representing
plaintiff Michael Harris.
Is Bosch here yet?
He and Jimmy are doing
death notifications.
All right. Tell him
to come see me when he gets in.
-Body in Lake Hollywood. -What?
That sounds like a suicide.
Can't patrol handle it?
Look, I don't want you guys
going out on some bullshit call.
Sounds like a suicide.
Except
for the missing-his-head part.
Lieutenant Ruiz
would like a word.
-With the temporary captain?
-Yes.
Uh, something about new patrol
SUVs that Captain Cooper
was supposed to follow up on.
You gonna work out of here
or your office?
-My office.
-Your office.
-Yeah.
-Way to go, Mad!
-
Hey, it's okay. Come on, Elite!
-Let's get the ball back!
-
Tell me you're on your way
with a large chai.
With a double shot
of Johnny Black in it.
Not gonna make it.
I caught a case.
-Tell Mads I'm sorry. -I thought
you weren't on rotation.
I wasn't. I'm not.
Special circumstances.
I get it.
How they doing?
Club volleyball's supposed to be
harder than high school, right?
Ooh, that bad?
I'll tell her, Harry.
I got to get back to it.
Okay.
I don't even want
to contemplate
how this city will react
if it was a police officer
who killed Howard Elias.
It goes where it goes.
We're not gonna hide anything.
Of course not.
But all the more reason
for a quick resolution.
Who's leading the investigation?
Harry Bosch. Hollywood Homicide.
We crossed paths last night.
You and Bosch?
He's a strong flavor.
You have no idea.
But he's never been sued
by Howard Elias.
How the hell did Bosch
manage that?
I'd like you to have him keep me
directly looped in, Irv.
A robust civilian oversight
of this investigation
couldn't hurt.
No, it couldn't.
I'm gonna Airbnb the shit out
of this place.
Mm-hmm.
No grass. I like it.
-Water ain't cheap.
-Mm-hmm.
Old lady died last month.
Daughter's selling this quick--
she needs the dough.
Tell your wife I'll offer
15% below asking, all cash.
Ex-wife. And you should
call her yourself.
-I'm just...
-Whoa!
Universal Studios.
Sweet.
Aw, fuck.
-Hey.
-You still waiting
on a warrant? -Yup.
Judge Houghton docked Pierce
for style points.
Oh. Houghton's
a pain in the balls.
-He resubmit?
-Yeah.
But now Her Honor has
seen fit
to appoint a Special Master.
Shit.
Who's she sending?
I have no idea.
Weekend.
This could take
a little while.
I left word with the chief.
Maybe he can goose Houghton.
Looky what I found.
My sister's charging me
$100 to watch my daughter today.
Her own fucking niece.
Lawyerly looking watch
and wallet.
Guess RHD thinks it was a cop.
Maybe just covering the bases.
Nah. They're worried
it's one of them.
I got to worry about you
not making RHD?
Not me, man.
I'm over that.
You know what?
No sense both of us
wasting our time here.
I'll take my IA to Hollywood
and see if we can
expedite the other warrants.
And, uh, start tracking down
our Black Guardian cops
-for questioning. All right?
-Cool.
Do you think you can't
trust me?
The watch and wallet
I want you to wait here
for the Special Master.
Where are you going?
Detective.
Fucking Bosch.
Private card game?
That's off-pattern.
They come, drop money
for ten days, go home.
Losing stings,
even if it's on purpose.
Maybe they just want
to play for real.
Charter for Beijing
left this morning.
Passenger manifest has
the whole group headed for home.
Manifest could be wrong.
Okay. Well,
we can go play--
let's see who's there.
If there's no one there
you're interested in,
I'll just win Uncle Sam's money
and go home.
And that's it.
Nothing fancy.
I'm just an asset.
Fancy's not my job.
What about Reggie?
My people in Hong Kong
can't locate him.
What does that mean?
My guess--
he's either disappeared
or he's been disappeared.
Oh, shit.
It's China. Triads.
Could be anything.
Or it could be us.
No, we-- you cleared his family.
We haven't gone near him.
What am I gonna tell Maddie?
-You'll keep looking?
-Yes.
-You'll let me know.
-Mm-hmm.
Thanks for being straight
with me.
You gotta sign.
It's for the money.
-Count it.
-I trust you.
-You Central?
-That's us.
I'm Bosch.
Something holding up
my grid search?
We're waiting on two more guys.
You know there's a clock
on this type of thing.
We're moving about as fast
as he deserves.
Sorry, I mistook you for cops.